When you're building applications,
when you're doing them at scale,
it's important to stop and notice,
what are the patterns that I'm using
over and over, and over again.
So, for instance,
let's go back to the command line,
I'm free styling here, but I think it's
really important to just call this out.
If we go, I'm going to just
shut this down for a minute.
And let's go and nx g.
We're going to generate another service
and I'm going to call it items.
And so
we're going to generate an item service.
And I'm going to put it in
the coordinator project.
We just make sure that everything
is going to come up right.
Okay, so I'm going to go ahead and
generate this, we now have a service.
Now I'm going to hop back into my code.
Let's open up DB dot JSON and
I'm going to copy
this And I'm going to paste it.
And now what we have instead of
widgets we're going to go items.
And so I realize that the data model
is very close that is by intention.
Just for the sake of speed
I want to illustrate this.
Like so.
Then I'm going to go
to the API interfaces.
And I'm just going to
introduce a new interface
which is going to be
item extends base entity.
So now we're starting to think about
this in terms of layers in kind of
this horizontal development.
If we go back to our server,
I'm going to spin this back up.
And let me just check my DB JSON,
there we go.
Let's save this.
Let's run this again.
And notice now I have two endpoints.
So if I go into My URL
up here ,we have widgets and
we have items.
And so now let's take this and
let's open up item service and
there's a fundamental flaw.
Without a flaw but an optimization I
can make with this code that I think
somebody could call out if they saw or
they watch what I'm doing and
at some point,
feel free to to point it out.
But I'm going to take and
I'm just going to copy this, And
I'm going to go over to the item service
and I'm just going to paste this in.
Now, you'll see here, the only thing that
I need to change is really
to do just a Find and
Replace on the model itself, so
I'm going do a case sensitive.
And We'll go here
And this is all leading to a point
Fix our imports.
We'll go HTTP client.
It's going to find the item hopefully yes,
if not, not a problem.
Sometimes you have to manually do this in,
here we go.
Item Http Client items.
Now, if you're paying attention,
there's a couple
things that I want to call
out that we can improve upon.
So if I put these side by side, And
if I scroll down, we'll start to see
some things that are very similar.
So one is this endpoint.
So this is something this
would be a candidate to
extract out into configuration.
So as you start to prepare to actually
deploy to multiple environments,
you would want to move this out.
So this is a transition step.
The other thing that.
I want to point out, these two methods,
do exactly the same thing,
and so this would be a candidate to
extract out, into a utility function.
With that said,
Everything else about this,
is essentially the same in terms
of the items and the widgets.
You're not doing the same thing.
But you're doing it the same.
Now here's the question.
Here's the thought exercise
that I will leave you with.
If you know what this is going to be.
Then how much time should
you spend thinking about
what your next service
is going to look like?
I would say, very, very little.
Because I could sit here and
I could generate or
introduce another data model into this
application and create a new end point.
And this service is going
to look exactly the same.
Why is that?
Because this service is doing one thing.
It is simply calling an endpoint,
grabbing the data and
then doing something else with it.
And so, this is a fundamental
problem that I've had or
had with kind of historical legacy
AngularJS and Angular apps,
is you have this idea of this stateful
service that's responsible for
one managing state, and
communicating with the server.
And so if I had business logic in here,
the business logic would change from
items to widgets more than likely.
I mean imagine if you had users and
orders, or users and
I mean whatever it is that The business
logic around the entities change.
But the mechanisms to fetch that
from a REST Endpoint doesn't change.
Like I don't think rest has changed in
a really, really, really long time.
And so now, what you want to
do is you want to start to
abstract The things that change away
from the things that do not change.
And so when you start thinking about
large scale apps that are stable,
that you can build on, this is how
you do that is you reduce coupling.
By not coupling things that don't change,
like calling rest API's with things
that do change, ie business logic,
and you separate these out so that you
can reuse the stuff that doesn't change.
And so, this kind of started out as I
wanted to introduce how to get up and
running with DB JSON very quick.
But really what it's kind of transitioned
into is proper abstractions,
and recognizing the patterns
that you do over and over.
And I think an HTTP service
class is a major candidate for
the fact that the only thing that
is changing in this entire thing,
is the model which affects that endpoint.
And then what I actually sent into
the methods, nothing else changes.
And so, what I've done and what you can do
is actually great just a live template.
To wear in your editor, you just have a
hotkey that generates the template out and
then you just put your model and
boom, done gone.
And you've done that.
This this kinda work right here.
Even with my commentary this should
not take you more than three minutes,
three to five minutes to generate
this layer in your application.